We're losing altitude quickly. We'll crash.
Are you okay?
-I'm okay.
Get you to the trees?
GERMANY 1944
Al.
Friend.
Did you come down hard? No, Captain.
It was a beautiful landing.
That should see you.
I was hit by shrapnel.
-Let me have a look.
I only suffered a hard blow.
How I'm ready?
It's just a scratch. Come on.
We you again tinker.
Style.
I hit hard, huh?
I want to go home.
-We will take you home.
-Quiet.
Everything will be fine.
I want to go home.
-It will be all right.
I'll help you.
I'll see that you can go home.
Everything will be fine.
And now?
-We have to go.
We can not ...
-Come him.
We have to go. Hurry up.
Stay seated. I go exploring.
Quiet.
This is one of those pilots.
My mother ...
and my sister.
You.
Hello, American.
For you the war is over.
Magnificent.
For you.
What is it called?
What do you think of '
Across the Sky'?
Not bad.
'A Long Way across the Sky'.
Play it again.
Do not worry. We
bring you guys back home.
To your new home.
To get off.
Fast.
Thank you.
You are now prisoners of the German Reich.
Despite your attempts to destroy our country ...
you will be treated very decently ...
according to the Geneva Convention.
If you can abide by the
rules, we also, to the rules.
But if you do not ...
will you stay a lot more unpleasant.
Prisoners go to your barracks. Hurry up.
Stop.
You want to say something?
You must salute.
Only when the last few
days have been promoted several times.
You must salute
-No.
I am higher in rank than you.
I'm not going to greet a
sergeant major, but George tries every day.
Welcome to the madhouse.
I'm Larry Packer.
Is one of you accidentally higher
in rank than a lieutenant colonel?
Nee, sir.
I first lieutenant and
second lieutenant is my copilot.
I'm still here, the top American officer.
The sleeves still bring down a colonel.
-Second Lieutenant Vincent Petrolini.
Board mechanic.
-Vinny, from New York.
Clair Cline, Minnesota.
So, what a beautiful name.
Call him but Cline. Reed Whitaker, Albuquerque.
I'm so rude. Sit down.
Show me your leg see.
McReady.
-Yes, sir?
Give your crutch.
Fortunately is not broken.
You sprained your ankle.
It appeals. Every morning and every afternoon.
Come on, we'll help you up.
Hurry up, gentlemen.
Whitman, Frederick.
Zimmerman, Raymond.
Dismissed.
Klaus did you know already.
You'd better stay away from him.
That's Bernd Weber.
We call him the lifeguard.
They read the camp newspaper.
From the Allied camp.
Which comes daily from
the camp in the north.
They can make carbon paper there.
Vinny has even built a radio.
Here?
With what?
-With of anything and everything.
You'd be amazed what you can
get here, if you just pay.
If you can get your cigarettes or coffee,
which acts here are as a kind of gold.
It'll also be an end with chocolate.
And you have built a radio?
-If they find ever ...
I disappeared in isolation for a week.
-At least.
Gentlemen, we're home.
Guys, this is Jack Findlay.
He thinks he's Jack Dempsey,
I think he's spying for the RAF.
It's all part of.
Whit, you are lying there.
Cline, that's your bed.
And Frank.
No idea what Frank does.
He lies all day on his nest.
He cuts things out. Nevertheless, Frank?
All that are needed to prevent boredom.
I could use some boredom.
-Otherwise I do.
Because you're stupid.
You still never know.
It's like Chinese torture with water.
You will be bound.
They always drop a drop of water.
Right on your forehead.
Endlessly long.
At first you think:
If all this is, come on then.
Because you're stupid ...
and never knows.
But not long after you all
want to exchange or say anything ...
in order to be able
to hold back the next drop.
But it does not stop.
And then you hear things
that are not there ...
and you see things that are not there.
And finally...
you become crazy.
Every day here ...
is a drop.
Drip.
Whatever.
Size of us in
the second northern camp ...
walked to the fence
wire to about to climb.
He was shot when
he was not even halfway.
Guys, we got company.
-What now, captain?
We crash. To jump.
I am hit.
Come on, Cline.
Let's see what you got.
I will go.
I just grabbed the ball.
Come on.
You go in the hole.
Three days.
-I just grabbed the ball but.
Enough, Lieutenant.
All right then.
Where are we going?
Until later then.
If you stick to the
rules, there is nothing wrong.
If you do not follow
the rules, you have a problem.
And you'll now pass it?
What did Hermann?
-He insists.
He can do anything.
Whit remains three days in solitary.
But you might find this interesting.
Boys.
If we were to
bomb, he always did so.
These stores are fine through.
So my mother sings.
The enemy.
Do you want this one?
That's mine.
I want him.
You do good, Whit.
You're doing a good job.
Peter?
-Klaus.
What are you doing here?
Leave a week. I am going to mother.
Then I thought: I'll
surprise you with a visit.
That you succeeded.
Man, you're my big brother. Do not Cry.
Please, sit down.
-I was all right?
Why do not you sit.
Seven days?
Leave to the homeland.
Did you do anything to the forefront?
I earned to leave.
Is it that bad?
The Firer in his infinite wisdom ...
surely something up his sleeve.
And how are your daughters?
Good.
They are still at Uncle Fritz in Lubeck.
Look, these are Dora and Gisela.
They will soon be six.
I have something for you.
-What?
And.
I can get hold after an attack.
A souvenir of your time at the enemy.
To you I have nothing at all.
Maybe you can make a curtain.
Splendid.
How did it decorated?
I really do not
know what she was thinking.
The evening before my departure ...
I played her a song on the violin.
I had written for her.
Have you written a song for her?
She loved it.
When I was ready...
she asked me to play it again.
But I did not.
I could not do it.
Remember what they said when we were arrested?
"For you the war is over."
But that's not true.
The war has only become different.
I think...
that more war is in our heads.
Do you understand?
Guys like you and Vinny
see the humor there on in.
I just want to
make the best of it.
We're only gone twice.
I tell you one thing.
She's the one.
And when I get home,
I'm going to marry her.
Look.
When this is finished,
I let him go around.
Someone had to do it.
Goodnight.
Can you do a little lightly?
Can you draw a violin?
So you're going to build a violin?
-Why not?
I make everything from wood.
-Have you ever built a violin?
I tried at school.
-And, did it?
And now you think that you succeed here?
In a prison camp?
I can try it.
-There's no hardware store here.
How to get tools?
Can I help you?
-I just admire your work.
What do you want that glass?
Nothing. The glass is not for sale.
Negotiate not you agree?
I can trade.
-The playtime is over.
Toe.
-Unless...
You have a dakkonijn for me.
A what?
-Cline, we should go.
A dakkonijn. Such an.
Want a cat?
Get me a cat and get the glass.
Over there.
Where is he going?
He's upstairs.
Can I use the clothesline?
If you are hanging it back again.
If the cat is
playing with the bait ...
the alarm sounds.
I firmly pull the cord ...
and crate falls.
In theory, I have a roof rabit.
It may take a while.
And here come the f-holes.
One on each side.
F-holes? Oh, the S-type things.
Precisely that S-like things.
You're doing a good job.
Where did you learn that?
-Here and there.
I did not know you were so religious.
-Are I do not.
So hot my son.
I understand.
How old is your son?
What do you want?
How did you come to that tool?
I need a few things.
I give my sources, not price.
I can not hire you
stuff if you do not use?
I always use them.
McReady, get a bag.
Here, you dakkonijn.
Good luck to him to calm.
Since I'm not so busy.
This is our dinner.
Fun anyway, they want a pet?
-I suspected of not.
All the effort that thing.
THE NECK
What about that?
They are not thick enough
and the wood is bad.
Do you sometimes need glue?
Wood glue sure?
Preferably, but ...
-There can I get.
If we make a deal.
What did you have in mind?
For starters, if I
give my source price ...
it remains my source.
Okay.
What else? Somethings I want.
What do you want?
Fight me.
Do you want to fight? Here?
In the ring.
That has already happened before.
Those bullies even give us gloves.
I can ask.
Come on, Lieutenant.
-How much do you want that violin?
First I want to see that
glue to see or too sticky.
Yes, Findlay. First make but for the glue.
Turn your chair, chump.
You're sitting on it.
How do you mean?
Before.
Tonight we have a fisticuffs.
Keep your gloves up and keep moving.
Is that all you have to say?
And success.
I know how to
get wood for your neck.
For the violin?
I'll need a minute, so
keep at it until I'm back.
Put it on, Cline.
Cline, take him to graze.
Guys, I want a fair fight.
Findlay, honestly.
Hail each other.
Are you down?
You're down, Cline.
One two...
three four...
five, six, seven, eight, nine.
One two...
three four five...
six ...
-Aside.
seven ...
-Plenty.
One two...
three ...
-Look.
four ...
-No problem, a breeze.
six, seven, eight ...
Stand up. - nine, ten.
Everthing allright?
Are you still there?
That was amazing.
You keep surprising me, Lieutenant.
Whit, scraping glue but the list.
I will do it.
That was fun, friend.
-Yes, great.
I have with the RAF
guys in camp seven spoken.
If we need more material,
I can scratch it from their seats.
Especially after our first-rate performance.
There you busy for a while with it.
Then I have to do something.
Before.
I think it will succeed.
Thank you, Vinny.
-You deserve it, champ.
You look terrible.
If a piece of meat at the butcher.
But what can you do.
Five half.
-On the side?
I think so. On both sides.
I use this not.
You can borrow him.
It's called off-white, but
I think it's just white.
I miss you.
Do you see me?
Are you succeeding?
It's just great to keep working at it.
It can be published.
So I'm at my best
The camp boys make copies of it ...
to distribute them afterwards.
We know someone with
has access to Hermann's office?
What do you want?
His blind.
Someone from west knows the
Russian who are cleaning Hermann's office.
How many roller blinds do you want?
-Four is enough.
Please.
Enter.
You like American coffee, if I understand?
And?
Never mind.
What is it?
I found something in the camp.
I thought you would like it.
Well, for the day with them.
You think this is funny?
Obviously not.
The enemy.
Who drew this?
You signed this.
No sir. I really do
not know who has drawn anything.
Search his bed.
How do these get there?
In solitary.
Stop.
Herr, I know something.
Well, boys. Just slide.
How long has he to stay in solitary?
-Ten.
Ten days?
-Sir.
He needed some stuff. Please.
Here.
-Well, I'll give it to him ...
if you give me something.
-You just got some.
Do you contribute also?
Lieutenant Romero.
-Is it an order, sir?
No, not a command.
No, the box.
Here our food is in.
I will give it to him.
-Wait.
This also.
Cline.
What's the problem, Lieutenant?
Then do at least a little effort
to get along with the other boys.
Do it if necessary for your country.
For my country?
I'm one day after Pearl Harbor enlisted.
Do not look so surprised.
I wanted the Japs do give their miserably.
But no, she informed me as bombardier.
I had to go to Europe.
That was my duty to the fatherland.
Throwing bombs on German families.
Hold on, son.
We not bomb civilians.
-If your bombardier was better than I ...
have no fixed houses demolished.
When we were brought down ...
and imprisoned.
I've seen what we inflict.
I saw a boy
about age as my son.
Death.
In the arms of his mother.
I thought we were on the right side.
This war is not black and white.
But I know, Frank ...
that this war ever ends.
And how we look against
it here will be really important.
Here with the charcoal.
One week there.
Captain?
-Day, Al.
I could not sleep.
That is quite normal for you first.
And for eight apparently.
This is your eighth mission?
You know I'm first lieutenant? Yes, Captain.
Exactly one year ago I was
sitting in math to dream ...
to be here.
In the air.
To throw bombs on the Nazis.
It's a dream come true.
Sir?
If we now ...
We are talking about
tomorrow, when we get back.
But if we ...
-Alistair.
If we do not come back?
-If we are back.
Yes, Captain?
Yes, Captain.
Whit, I'm glad you're there again.
-I want water.
I rule.
Thanks.
-You must salute.
Forget it.
Come, let me.
Cline.
I do not remember what she looks like.
I could always remember every detail me.
And now I do not
know what she looks like.
You must persevere, friend.
You'll remember everything.
Okay?
Everything.
But you have to persevere.
You'll remember everything.
I promise.
Man, you're ugly.
How did you ever get all the girls?
Backwards.
Do you hear me?
If I tell you
to reverse, you step backwards.
That's an order.
Whit, what are you doing?
Let's go inside.
He's not as good since ...
Thank you, Findlay.
Whit, nee.
Cline.
Stand still.
Stop.
Wait.
You were with him.
He tried to stop him.
-Yes.
You know what I learned English?
In Amerika.
Boston College.
I studied mathematics.
I'm a fan of the Red Sox.
I hate the Yankees.
Here they come.
-We have become.
What now? Two engine is stopped.
Get outta here. To jump.
'A Long Way across the Sky'.
We go.
This is Bernd.
Come on.
Those bastards have moved his mattress.
Until someone comes back.
TERRIBLE NEWS,  THIS WHIT
HAD TO BE WITH YOU
FROM THE HOUSE
CLINE PLAYS FOR HIS GIRL ROMANTIC
I need resin.
All around us are trees around.
With the resin is so good.
We could have done something more fun.
A baseball bat or something.
STRINGING BOW
I'm perplexed.
Does anyone have an idea?
I'll ask around.
Your new home.
-You are now captives of the Reich.
Have you ever seen Gary Cooper
in baseball movie as Lou Gehrig?
No.
-No? A good movie.
Come on.
Does it happen to have a ...
bow?
Then you must be Brian.
Are you?
Yes, apparently.
That was here when I got here.
Do you use the bow
to keep the window open?
Well, if it stinks. How so?
Come along.
And take that bow with.
Damn, man.
What do you want for that bow?
You'll get it from me.
Have fun with it.
Thanks.
Are we lucky.
Unbelievable.
Guys, we got company.
I'll help you.
Do you want this one?
-I want that.
What do you want?
You did not saluted?
-From his life day.
No, he had something else in mind.
Does he want alcohol?
No, he wants the distillation apparatus.
Sir, I can't ...
-Sorry.
It's okay.
Help me to build a new one.
Packer will not play.
He will not lose.
You may be the highest-ranking here,
you are the worst card player ever.
I don't argue.
Sir, can you hand me the bow?
-Of course. Please.
Thank you.
Attention.
Packer, come along.
Wrong lot.
German troops have surrounded the majority of Americans.
This is a big blow for the Allies.
Yesterday it was thought that
the war would soon end.
That, today, is completely different.
The war effort has been thrown
back a year, possibly even longer.
I don't want another year to sit here.
You have heard it all.
The authorities make changes to the protocol.
Food rations can be reduced.
All deliveries of the Red
Cross be discontinued until further notice.
Give your ID tags once.
-Why so?
Come on, it's Christmas Eve.
Thank you.
My father dreamed that you would
be home in about nine days.
I don't know.
I think every time:
Peace on earth to men of good will.
Again and again.
Crikey, Cline.
That was beautiful.
More.
McReady, I can't hear.
Again.
Colonel.
I thought you would leave on Christmas?
I was on leave.
I received this message.
I'm so sorry.
I know you were
very fond of your brother.
I know this isn't the right time ...
but you wouldn't appreciate if withheld the information.
No that...
You have done well.
Thank you.
Another song, Cline.
Merry Christmas, sir.
Give me the violin.
-No sir.
Stop. Give me the violin.
No.
- Let it go.
Give me the violin.
-Okay.
Here.
Please.
1st Lieutenant Cline has attacked a German officer.
Thus he remains locked
until further notice in solitary.
Klaus doesn't allow anybody.
Georg negotiates even extra food or blankets.
None of these bastards.
Everything will be fine.
According Eisenhower, the Russians will be
in a few weeks in Berlin.
Come on, Frankie. Laugh again.
Do you really think the
Krauts let us free the Russians?
They'll shoot us out before the Russians there.
Come on, Frankie.
We are going home.
Home, Frankie.
Guys, he's right.
They will undoubtedly bring us if they withdraw.
Either way, a death sentence.
The enemy.
Help him, boys.
Cline, do you know what they say on the radio?
That the Russians are close.
They're talking about that weeks.
This is yours.
Sergeant Major.
I'm not asleep.
Here please.
I was hoping I
could hear you play again.
If you want, I'll help with the repairs.
I had hoped that someone
would help me to the latrine.
I got it.
I'll help you there, but
the rest is up to you.
Come on.
I need help.
Friend.
How are you?
You look like a newborn baby.
They are nervous.
The Russians are very close.
That's soon over, our
hard wheat soup and bread.
For you.
Hold on, friend.
If the Russians are approaching,
the Germans will drain us.
What do they do
to prisoners who can't walk?
Don't worry about that.
We really won't leave you behind.
Just make sure that you get better.
How long do you think?
Maybe another week.
And then...
We follow our orders.
We are ten times as much.
If everyone participates, we have a chance.
-Then they will be many deaths.
With all due respect, sir.
If we don't do anything we'll
soon run into a death march ...
According to the BBC it's
the equally in other camps also.
Some boys from barrack
7 have quite a few.
I can arrange more.
If I perish go, I'm fighting.
I'm with him, sir.
It worth.
I understand you.
-Frank. Stop that.
It's okay, Vinny.
To begin, we need glue.
Anthony Baker.
-Hyee!
Oscar Grey.
William C. Bryant.
Jack Findlay.
Allan O'Clark.
Marion Collins.
Day captain.
Lester R. Evans.
What did I say?
We would talk about
it when we got back.
And we're back, Captain.
I have important advice for you.
Always trust your pilot.
And if I just want to go home?
I want to go home.
Clair Cline.
Here.
Here I am.
I have something for you.
You should not look at me.
This is Frankies' work.
I've had a lot of help.
Hopefully he still does it.
Thank you, Frank.
-Then I had to do something.
Why'm not going to vote?
Listen how it sounds.
Not now, guys.
But thanks anyway.
You.
Lieutenant Colonel Packer, the
commander wants to see you.
Now it's going to happen.
We have more blades.
In the camp are men
ready to fight if necessary.
If the Germans come
back, they will experience something.
Not yet.
We need to hear what Pack has to say.
We are waiting for him.
If he comes back.
Lieutenant Colonel Packer.
You're the top American officer.
I must inform you that
Russian troops are approaching the camp.
In two days they'll be here.
I have been ordered from above to ...
to evacuate the camp immediately.
Within two hours the prisoners
should be ready to go.
We will bring you to a safe place.
We're not going anywhere.
Leaving with you?
It is a death march.
Shoot us, because my men aren't going nowhere.
We stay here to wait for the Russians.
This is of no use
for you and the prisoners.
They don't want to die.
We crash. Leap.
Stop. Stand still.
Stop, no.
I follow ...
-In a few hours, the Russians here.
But if you ...
-It's over. It's too late.
Who...
wrote this music?
I.
For my wife.
Good luck with the Russians.